So, 120 years ago,
Dr. Röntgen X-rayed his wife's hand.
Quite why he had to pin her fingers to the floor
with her brooch, I'm not sure. It seems a bit extreme to me.
That image was the start of the X-ray technology.
And I'm still fundamentally using the same principles today.
I'm interpreting it in a more contemporary manner.
The first shot I ever did
was of a soda can, which was to promote a brand that we all know,
so I'm not going to do them any favors by showing you it.
But the second shot I did was my shoes I was wearing on the day.
And I do really like this shot, because
it shows all the detritus that's sort of embedded
in the sole of the sneakers.
It was just one of those pot-luck things where you
get it right first time.
Moving on to something a bit larger,
this is an X-ray of a bus.
And the bus is full of people.
It's actually the same person. It's just one skeleton.
And back in the '60s,
they used to teach student radiographers
to take X-rays, thankfully not on you and I,
but on dead people.
So, I've still got access to one of these dead people
called Frieda; she's falling apart, I'm afraid,
because she's very old and fragile.
But everyone on that bus is Frieda.
And the bus is taken with a cargo-scanning X-ray,
which is the sort of machine you have on borders,
which checks for contraband and drugs and bombs and things.
Fairly obvious what that is.
So, using large-scale objects
does sort of create drama
because you just don't see X-rays of big things that often.
Technology is moving ahead,
and these large cargo scanner X-rays
that work with the digital system are getting better and better and better.
Again though, to make it come alive
you need, somehow, to add the human element.
And I think the reason this image works, again, is because
Frieda is driving the bulldozer.
(Laughter)
Quite a difficult brief,
make a pair of men's pants look beautiful.
But I think the process, in itself, shows how exquisite they are.
Fashion -- now, I'm sort of anti-fashion because I
don't show the surface, I show what's within.
So, the fashionistas don't really like me
because it doesn't matter if Kate Moss is wearing it or if I'm wearing it,
it looks the same.
(Laughter)
We all look the same inside, believe me.
The creases in the material and the sort of nuances.
And I show things for really what they are, what they're made of.
I peel back the layers and expose it. And if it's well made I show it, if it's badly made I show it.